In this lecture we are going to start applying gradients.
I should mention that colors can be applied to blocks.
It's not necessary to apply colors on a global level.
Let's try applying these settings to specific blocks.
In your editor, open the theme dot json file.
We're going to update these styles.
Object adding new property called Blocks.
The Blox property will be an object that contains a list of blocks.
The process is exactly similar to modifying a block settings inside this object.
We must add the name of the block.
For this example, let's try changing the default color of a button.
The name of the button block is called Core Button.
You can refer to the reference for the official name.
Next, we can start changing the default stylings.
The properties for modifying a block's colours are the same as changing them on a global level.
We can modify the colour through the colours property.
Unlike before.
Gradients must be specified through a different property.
We can't set the background colour of a button with the background property.
Instead we need to add a property called gradients.
The value for this property must be a valid CSS value for gradient.
Let's try reusing our gradients as a reminder.
WordPress will create variables from your custom colors, gradients and dual tones.
All gradients are prefixed with the WP preset gradient keyword.
The full name of our gradient is WP preset gradient you summer dog.
After making those adjustments, let's try refreshing the page.
If we were to add a new button to the template, the background color should be our new gradient.
As expected, our gradient has been applied perfect.
In my opinion, the gradient doesn't work well for the button.
However, I'm going to leave it as the default background colour.
For example purposes, feel free to remove the gradient from the block in the next lecture.
Let's keep applying colours to our elements.